Title: 
3 Benefits To Owning A Refurbished Laptop

Word Count:
434

Summary:
If you like having the latest and greatest, then refurbished is not for you. However, if you don't mind minor cosmetic damage, and the fact that someone else has used your laptop, then you may want to consider purchasing a refurbished laptop. But why would anyone want to purchase a refurbished laptop as opposed to a brand new one? In this article, I will tackle this very issue, and give 3 reasons why you should own a refurbished laptop.


Keywords:
refurbished laptop, refurbished laptops


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 the Tech Boy

If you like having the latest and greatest, then refurbished is not for you. However, if you don't mind minor cosmetic damage, and the fact that someone else has used your laptop, then you may want to consider purchasing a refurbished laptop. But why would anyone want to purchase a refurbished laptop as opposed to a brand new one? In this article, I will tackle this very issue, and give 3 reasons why you should own a refurbished laptop.

The first reason why purchasing a refurbished laptop may be a good idea is that they are a lot less expensive than their newer cousins. Of course, refurbished implies that it has seen prior usage, so refurbished laptops are generally older models, and you don't always know how their previous owners took care of them. But refurbished also implies that someone has taken the time to fix, and often times replace, any broken components. Do some research and only buy from reputable sources.

The second reason why you may want to purchase a refurbished laptop is that, because of their low cost, they are more expendable than new models, and make a great second laptop. As I explained above, refurbished laptops are generally a lot cheaper than a new laptop so if something should happen to it, you're only out maybe a few hundreds dollars as opposed to a new laptop which could cost you thousands.

The third reason why you may want to consider purchasing a refurbished laptop is that since you'll be spending a lot less money on the computer itself, you can afford to spend more upgrading it with newer, and better components. For example, you can add memory to speed it up, or upgrade to a larger hard drive. You should, of course, make sure that your computer can support these upgrades before you even purchase it. If it can't, then look for one that can before making your final decision.

If you decide to purchase your first refurbished laptop, make sure you do plenty of research. Refurbished means used, and you don't kow how the previous owner took care of it. Buy from a reputable source that offers some sort of warranty. Most won't warranty the battery or software but will provide at least a 30 day warranty for most of the hardware.

I've discussed three benefits to owning a refurbished laptop. They are low in cost, make a great second laptop, and you can spend more on upgrading the components.  Make sure to do your research before you buy, and owning one will be a pleasant experience.


